Recent years have witnessed rapid development in DNA sequencing technologies as well as tremendous growth in the application of genome analysis in medical practices and commercial services. As a result, the large amount of DNA sequence data generated in the process is becoming an im- portant issue for scientist to tackle, since efficient storage and transportation of such data is key to the widespread usage of DNA analysis. The developments in hard drive storage and network transportation technologies are being overwhelmed by the growth of DNA sequence data and thus not capable of providing a solution alone[2]. We must, therefore, look for better compression methods to reduce the size of data we need to store or transport, while providing fast compression and access.

While there are multiple commonly used data format for DNA sequences, storing DNA as variations relative to a reference genome is the most promising in terms of efficiency. Because of the high level of similarity among genomes of the same species, specifically, 99% of the content in human genome are shared by all individuals[6], we only need to store a very small portion of the entire genome.

Although it is important to have effective and efficient algorithms to completely compress and decompress DNA variation files, when these data are used in real world scenarios, often times only small parts of the entire sequence are needed. Spending a few minutes decompressing the entire genomic sequence in order to access several bases is not desirable. Our main contribution in this work is therefore a DNA variation storage system that utilizes similar techniques of previous works but enables random access functionalities, while achiev- ing fast compression speed and reasonable compression ratio. We also present the performance of our pipeline on James Watson's genome[13].
